Yes!
Nice, Hinata, Kageyama!
That was so close. Shake it off, Ikejiri!
Nice try!
Karasuno isn't using their set and blind fast attack.
In its place, although unpolished,
they've learned to use a normal fast attack.
It's sloppy, but they're also adjusting trajectory.
They must have had a really productive
practice match for it to happen this fast.
They have learned their own weapons and practiced them.
Now they utilize the best ones for each match.
The precarious team that relied solely on power has gained wisdom.
They still make a lot of basic errors.
I'm sorry!
Receiving skills are the one thing you can't correct overnight.
Give us a nice serve, Chaya!
Tokonami              Karasuno
One more!
Noya!
All right!
They're suddenly about to win the set.
Their libero is going to be real trouble.
Also, having that stubbled dude on their team
allows Kageyama to use his sets more effectively.
Shake it off.
Come on, let's get one point and turn it around.
Right.
One more point!
Hinata, make it count!
Yes, sir!
We're taking this point!
Yessir!
Haikyuu !!
I take two deep breaths and calm my heart
I take a step with my left foot to break the silence
Get your nervousness in check and reign in your mind
You have it in you
You can cast out the demons
Fate? Random chance? Questions? Answers? It's all one
This is the sign
Oh, yeah!
The world is opening to us
We pass the door,
look straight ahead, and never look back
Oh, yeah!
I put my hand to my chest
I can feel the proof that I exist
It is my beating heart
Episode Sixteen:
Winner and Loser
We did it!
It was our biggest tournament in junior high.
We seemed to win our first match by dumb luck.
Izumikan Jr. High
Furusan North Jr. High
Amado Jr. High
Taihaku Jr. High
Izumikan Jr. High
Furusan North Jr. High
Amado Jr. High
Taihaku Jr. High
But in the second round, we faced a team we didn't stand a chance against.
Do you remember what you told our team as we were giving up?
We're playing against junior high schoolers just like us,
so losing isn't a sure thing!
We can't win unless we try!
You never give up, Sawamura.
I'll never give up!
This is my last tournament.
We're playing against junior high schoolers just like us. You've got that right!
And we won in the first round for the first time!
All right! We're gonna win in the second round for the first time as well!
Yeah!
Yes!
Our intentions were good, but naturally our team didn't suddenly improve.
Izumikan                       Taihaku
Yes!
Sorry, Sawamura.
I'm sorry.
This point will turn it around!
Izumikan                        Taihaku
We lost, but it wasn't unexpected,
so it didn't hurt that much.
It even felt like a relief knowing that we wouldn't
have to do any more painful training the next day.
But then there was you, the only one who was suffering.
I don't know why, but I felt a little jealous you could feel that way.
All right!
A-Are you okay, Ikejiri?
Hinata, give us a good serve!
Tamagawa!
Nice receive, Tamagawa!
Bring it left!
Ikejiri!
Tokonami              Karasuno
Yes!
Karasuno is nothing like I've heard.
They're really tough.
They're on a whole other level.
When the net stands between you,
superiority doesn't matter anymore!
You can't win unless you try.
Uh, I mean...
My friend used to say...
It's starting.
Right.
It doesn't sound persuasive coming from a guy like me! Am I stupid?!
I've totally lost it now.
Give us a nice serve, Kageyama!
All right!
An ace!
Now that they've won the first set,
Karasuno is starting to get into the groove.
All right!
Karasuno       Tokonami
Shit!
Ikejiri!
It's high!
Yes—
Yes!
Karasuno                         Tokonami
Aren't we going a little overboard over one point?
That's how it should be.
This is the kind of point that turns the tide!
Guys.
We can't win unless we try, right?
We'll be tenacious!
A small-time team knows how to hang in there!
Let's go for the win!
Yeah!
Aya!
Yui, get it!
Right!
Let it go!
Yes!
Nice judgment call!
L, U, C, K, Y! L, U, C, K, Y! Lucky!
Shirato Girls                Karasuno
Even if you're not sure you can win,
or everyone around you says you don't stand a chance,
we can't...
We can't allow ourselves to say that!
Give us a good serve!
Go!
Aya!
We did it!
Shake it off, Aya! You almost had it!
You could've retrieved that, Yui.
What?
I'm sorry! I've messed up so many balls!
Reflect on the match after it's over.
Now, stand up.
This isn't over yet!
All right!
Karasuno             Tokonami
Match point, fully in Karasuno's favor.
For them, it won't hurt in the least if they lose this point.
But for us...
One more point.
It isn't over!
Come and get us, Karasuno!
Sakurai!
Ikejiri!
We haven't lost this yet!
This isn't over yet!
Left!
Right on!
You pieces of shit!
I'll retrieve the next one!
We're gonna get that point back!
Yeah!
These guys are playing for keeps.
In this venue where our team isn't even on anyone's radar, I'll bet...
The Iron Wall of Date
these guys are the only ones...
playing us for keeps.
Karasuno
Snap out of it, dumbass! Get movi—
We won.
Yeah.
Does that mean we get another match?
Yeah, 'cause we won.
We won.
We won!
We can play another match!
We can stay on the court!
For another match!
The tiny beast, so hungry for victory,
has had his very first taste.
Yeah.
Are these guys fully aware they have
another match to play this afternoon?
It's just that victory was a sure thing, so they should've kept as much energy in reserve as possible.
What's so bad about it?
We got to see them play for keeps.
But they didn't use the deviant fast attack.
The other match is also over.
Date Tech won by a landslide.
Karasuno vs. Date Tech.
Who will rise to the top?
Let's go.
We have to secure our next victory or we won't be there.
Prefectural
High School
Girls Volleyball
Tournament
Prefectural
High School
Girls Volleyball
Tournament
Stop crying, you silly!
I can't help it. They went after my serves.
They took so many points because of me.
Volleyball is about keeping the ball in play after that!
Our opponents were better at it
than we were! That's why we lost.
The blame doesn't fall on any one person!
Captain, the teacher wants to see you.
Right!
I'll be right back, okay?
Michimiya is incredible.
She practiced the most,
so why isn't she taking it the hardest?
She is.
What?
She keeps up a strong front when she's with us.
Is the next match after that one?
She'll wait until she's alone.
I actually did a pretty good job.
I didn't skip practice that much.
The day after I saw the match on TV, I goofed off,
but I was half serious when I said I'd be representing Japan in the future.
But the moment it came down to boring resistance training,
my enthusiasm bottomed out.
Is this all there is?
That was quick.
It's only June.
If only I'd worked just a little harder at it back then...
If only I'd worked a little harder at the resistance training and running...
If only I'd been more of a captain...
If only I'd been a little more desperate to make one more receive...
If only I'd gotten in one more step...
Would I have gotten to play volleyball just a little longer?
Sawamura!
Ikejiri?
Win!
You have to keep winning!
Win for us too!
Sure.
Challenge accepted!
Tens of thousands of players nationwide are probably
going through the same match-ending disappointment.
To get to nationals, they have to win every single preliminary match.
If this were a work of fiction,
the guys going to nationals would be the main characters,
and we would be like the fill-in characters.
But so what?
We were a part of that.
Volleyball.
Haikyuu !!
Karasuno was incredible.
Their tiny number ten really freaked me out!
Yeah, that's for sure.
He was totally nailing those fast attacks.
Wh-What? I'm allowed to be happy!
No one's ever said that kind of stuff about me before.
Did I say anything?
It's great that you're getting noticed.
The more our opponents notice you and get defensive around you,
the more you can tap into your potential.
I'm not sure what you're saying,
but for now, your smile terrifies me.
Ow!
Yeah, he's right.
Anyway, "that tiny number ten" will set an excellent mood.
The brighter the mood is,
and the more Hinata shines, the more it will blind the opponent blockers.
We'll be using the same starting lineup for round two as we did for round one.
The next match is at 1:30 PM.
Don't let yourselves cool down.
Have a light meal before that time.
Don't fill up!
Yessir!
Our next match is against No Brow's Iron Wall high school.
That's Date Tech.
I knew that!
I think that the match Karasuno lost to Date Tech in March
is the reason why Azumane quit the team.
Really?
There was a match in which the opposition blocked all of his spikes.
Blockers that can completely stop Asahi from scoring.
Hinata, Kageyama.
Have you got a minute?
Asahi.
We should get going.
I'm counting on you.
Date Tech is a strong opponent.
Three months ago, they thrashed us good with their Iron Wall block.
But now we have our greatest decoy!
You blazed a trail for Hinata to use.
Now, I want you to blaze a path for our ace, Asahi!
All right! We're gonna win round two as well!
Go, go, let's go! Let's go, Date Tech!
The Iron Wall of Date
Date Tech, fight!
Yeah!
Running!
Those guys sure keep busy with scare tactics!
Date Tech scares me.
They'd overwhelm anyone sharing the same court.
I felt so bad for the spiker on the team they played in the first round.
It was like they literally won't cut any slack for anyone.
Captains!
Let's have a good match.
The Iron Wall of Date
It's like the entire stadium wants Date Tech to win.
We're receiving first.
We're on this side.
Right.
Warm up! Receiving!
Yessir!
Let's do this! Keep it in play!
It's been three months since we lost in straight sets to Date Tech.
The team is definitely evolving, but the image of losing may linger in the heads of the upperclassmen.
For now, we need to do something about this intimidating atmosphere.
Rolling...
Thunder...
Again!
Nailed it.
Noya, nice receive!
You're totally sharp! Aside from the name.
The name is sharp too!
Teach it to me! Teach me how to do the "Again"!
Was that different from the last one?
What was that?
Just receive it normally.
Nishinoya's up to it again.
Psst, Nishinoya! Daichi will get mad at you again.
All right! We've got nothing to worry about!
You guys focus on what's in front!
I've got your backs.
Th...
That's so cool!
That's so cool.
I'll be dammed!
It looks like everyone's in the usual frame of mind now.
Yeah.
For all that stature, he's incredibly reliable.
A libero not only defends the team.
Another vital part of the job is to support the team from behind the scenes.
He really is an excellent libero.
Fly
The Iron Wall of Date
Form a line!
Fly
The Iron Wall of Date
Let's have a good match!
We run laps convinced that we will all make it
We suffer through the nights for a vision we chose on a whim
If you really want fairness then we'd all look basically the same
We will suffer through more nights for a vision instead of standing still
Our passion burns until the morning and we advance with closed eyes
I haven't forgotten you despite this passion
I run with only my headlight for guidance
No matter what awaits me I will laugh in this body I was born in
Is there someone running with your taillight for guidance?
What you call determination just means bunching up
Is someone going to follow up on all these impressions?
Will vowing to never falter let me laugh again?
Next Episode Preview
So you were stumped by No Brows once before, Asahi?
Huh? Yeah.
He is kind of intimidating.
But you're more than a match for him when it comes to looking old!
What?
Please stop!
Episode Seventeen:
The Iron Wall
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"The Iron Wall."